<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="keys">
    <title>API Keys</title>
    <shortdesc>An API key is a unique string that identifies and authenticates your requests to the HelioNote REST API. Every request must include a valid API key to ensure secure access to your account data.</shortdesc>
    
    <refbody> 
    <section>
        <title>Obtaining an API Key</title>
        <p>To get an API key, sign in to your HelioNote developer account and navigate to the API Keys section in the dashboard. From there, you can generate a new key or manage existing ones.</p>
        </section>
    
        <section>
            <title>Using an API Key</title>
            <p>Include your key in the Authorization header of every request, using the following format:</p>
<codeblock outputclass="makefile">
 Authorization: Bearer [your_api_key]     
</codeblock>

<p><b>Example:</b></p>
<codeblock outputclass="sql">
curl -X GET "https://api.helionote.com/v1/notes" \
-H "Authorization: Bearer abc123xyz456"
</codeblock>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Security Best Practices</title>
       <ul>
           <li>Never share your API keys publicly or expose them in client-side code.</li>
           <li>Rotate keys regularly to reduce security risks.</li>
           <li>If a key is compromised, revoke it immediately and generate a new one.</li>
           <li>Restrict keys to specific environments or IPs whenever possible.</li>
           </ul>
        </section>
        
        <section>
            <title>Common API Key Issues</title>
            <ul>
                <li><b>Invalid key:</b> Ensure you copied the key correctly.</li>
                <li><b>Missing key:</b> Add the <codeph>Authorization</codeph> header to your request.</li>
                </ul>
        </section>
    
    </refbody>
</reference>
